Most of the existing services in the Ethereum ecosystem (and
cryptocurrency in general) fall in two opposite camps:

On one side, there are the fully decentralized applications. For
these, the user installs a "Dapp Browser" which can interact with
smart contracts on the blockchain and do the operations that the user
requests. In these cases, the user needs to have a substantial amount
of knowledge regarding how blockchain works, how to keep their
security keys protected and has no recourse in case something goes
wrong. Any transaction that is executed on the blockchain can not be
reversed.

On the other end, we have a number of services provided by companies
that act as a proxy between the end user and the blockchain. A typical
example of such services would be the currency exchanges where people
can buy, sell and keep a balance in cryptocurrencies. The user does
not ever have any direct control over the funds and *trusts* that the
service is able to honor all of the obligations to all users that use
the service. These services are usually called "custodial wallet
providers", i.e, they are the ones holding the keys to the funds. It
is also said that these services are *centralized* in nature, given
that if some security issue affects the service provider, all of its
users will be affected.

All in all, the case for choosing decentralized vs. centralized
services and applications depend on a trade-off between multiple factors:

#### Usability vs User Control

It is clear that decentralized apps give give the users direct control
and power over their funds and resources. A lot of the times this can
lead to users' confusion and uncertainty about how to properly perform
certain tasks, which lead to users dropping application usage
altogether. Centralized applications usually provide an abstraction to
the users that eliminates the less desired options for the most common
tasks, streamlining operation and facilitating adoption by less
technical people.

#### First-party vs Third-party Risks

A common maxim among proponents of decentralized applications is "Not
your keys, not your money". This means that you should only count your
funds as yours if you are able to exert *direct* control over it,
without any third-party involved. Despite the relatively short history
of Blockchain-based technologies, there has been a surprisingly large
number of cases of service providers commit fraud with funds that are
supposed to belong to users, inappropriate seizure of funds and
outright theft.

Even though the more established companies are increasingly complying
to more regulations and developing a more robust legal framework for
insuring their assets and liabilities, every user of a custodial
service needs to be aware that funds sent to any third-party has no
real guarantee that it belongs to them.

On the flip side of this equation, users that control their own keys
also need to be very aware of the potential risks of doing so. They
can be victims of phishing scams, computer viruses, hardware failure
leading to loss of keys and consequent loss of funds, etc.

#### Economies of Scale vs Robustness of Decentralization

Due to its focus on a much smaller range of functionality that is
offered to its users and that the marginal cost of every *extra* user
(i.e, serving one or one thousand users require almost the same
hardware and facilities), centralized services benefit greatly from
*economies of scale*. Business optimize their operations and manage to
a point where they can offer a service to a user at a price point that
is lower than the cost the user would have if they had to do it by
themselves.

However, this optimization and specialization of centralized services
also mean they are more susceptible to bigger catastrophic risks. If a
custodial wallet provider suffers a security breach, the funds of all
its users are at risk. Compare that with the case where one individual
makes a mistake or has their computer breached and it is easy to see
that decentralized systems are more robust as a whole. Also, hackers
have a bigger reward to try to attack one big company than try to
break into the computers of many different individuals. So by having
your own wallet and taking the proper security measures, you are less
likely to be a victim of any systematic attack.

### A Balanced Approach

Hub20 is only a software package that anyone can download, run and
modify. It is up for the operators to decide how they are going to
manage its instances and who can have access and create accounts on
their server.

We believe that this system can strike the right balance between
fully-decentralized services and traditional managed/custodial
wallets.

 - By being self-hosted and open source, any one can install and
   operate an instance if they want to have full control over the
   system. Those that do not want to deal with the hassle can instead
   simply join an instance operated by someone they know.
 - Hub operators are assumed to be people with technical knowledge to
   make the choices and change the system to what they seem fit for
   their particular use-case and also for the use-case of their own
   group.
 - Non-technical users who would be unlikely to adopt any
   decentralized solution do not need to trust some faceless, distant
   company. The idea of having many hubs for many distinct small
   groups lends itself to be used by a group of people that trust each
   other and know each other personally. Eventual conflicts are
   reduced to a more local level.
 - The cost to operate a hub can be shared by all of its members,
   bringing it closer to the cost of outsourcing the service to a
   third-party.
 - A hub will pool resources from multiple people, but its size would
   still be very small compared to a company that wants to manage
   funds from thousands of users.

In summary, the idea of Hub20 is to create a constellation of
independent hubs, without having one single big entity dominating the
space. It is an effort to make the decentralized systems easy to use
for non-technical people without having to trust unknown third-parties.
